You don't need to go too far, drive 300 kilometers west from Guangzhou, a first-tier city, and walk into the mountains. As long as you have the patience to chat with an old man in the canteen at the front of the village, they can tell you who bought or picked up a mentally ill woman to be his wife.


According to statistics, 30 million Chinese marriageable men can’t find a spouse. The situation is even worse in the mountainous countryside: A large number of marriageable women go to work in coastal cities, resulting in a large number of rural men who cannot find wives. When these bachelors reach their fifties or sixties, they buy mentally ill women from human traffickers as their wives. There is a huge market for selling mentally ill women. The cost of abducting and selling healthy women or Vietnamese brides is relatively high, and they have the ability to run away. Therefore, bachelors from poor families would prefer to pay 2,000 to 3,000 yuan for buying mentally ill women who can't run away yet can carry babies.

From 2016 to 2020, the author interviewed more than 100 old bachelors who either bought mentally ill women or picked up stray mentally ill women as wives. These men are from 50 to 80 years old. They belong to the poorest group of people in China, at the bottom of society. Many of their wives do not have household registration, ID cards, or even names. In the past 4 years, among those women I have visited, three have died at their captivities and two have gone missing.

From the coast to the north, going to the depths of the hills, there are more and more villages selling mentally ill women, dotted in the mountainous area where Guangdong and Guangxi meet. The locals know their existence. Buying and selling mentally ill women in the countryside is as common as buying and selling pigs, sheep, cows, and other livestock. When passing through every room where mentally ill women are kept, it is like passing through isolated islands, and they stare at me as if asking if I can do anything for them. I found that I couldn't do anything, except for these photos, I couldn't take any of them with me.